look up find that little yellow dot
that's titan it's saturn's largest moon
and the second largest moon in our whole
solar system
and it might be the only place in our
solar system where there's liquid water
besides earth plus it has an atmosphere
that serves as a shield against solar
radiation and cosmic rays
just like earth if life was a house
titan would have a lot of the bricks
you'd need to build it
strap in you're heading over there it
takes a long
time to get to titan but you know the
magic of youtube
here it is a bit bigger than our moon
and a whole lot heavier
it's even bigger than mercury that means
its gravity is still pretty weak
you'll feel seven times lighter here
than on earth
at the local gym back home you can lift
150 pounds
on titan you can lift more than one
thousand
looking good the surface is mostly made
up of ice
it has small mountains craters and a few
cryo volcanoes
basically the same as a regular volcano
but instead of lava
this beast spits out water ice ammonia
and methane there are lakes and clouds
kind of like a canyon would look like on
earth but here
there's only a tiny difference
everything is covered in thick fog
and sometimes it hails frozen methane
on earth we use methane as fuel because
it burns
but on titan there's no oxygen can't get
a fire going on this hunk of rock
no oxygen means you need to put on an
oxygen mask
but you don't have to wear a whole
spacesuit like on our moon
titan has a stronger atmosphere but you
packed a sweatshirt right
it's going to get pretty cold soon like
negative 300 degrees cold
the coldest it ever got on earth was
negative 128
and that was right at the south pole
it's so cold because it's so far from
the sun
almost 900 million miles anyway
that dense fog and atmosphere stopped
the sun's rays from warming the surface
sounds kind of extreme but so is life
it can survive almost anywhere take the
bacteria
they know some long latin word it can
survive radiation
and extremely low temperatures it even
survived a whole year in outer space
on the outside of the international
space station titan would be a piece of
cake
compared to that especially if we
drilled down a bit
many scientists believe there's a whole
ocean under the surface of titan
saturn's gravity gives titan's core a
little heat boost
plus there's ammonia in that ocean it's
like
titan's version of antifreeze as long as
the water stays liquid
life's got a pretty strong chance of
success so what's down there
scientists have actually found real
evidence that titan might already have
life on it
here check out this microscope this is
c3h2
it was discovered by this weird group of
antenna things living in the desert in
chile
it used 66 antennas all pointed at the
same place in the sky
this c3h2 molecule can act as a building
block for dna
the code of life
some people think that these molecules
were around on our planet
billions of years ago just when life
began
scientists also checked it out firsthand
with a probe
that actually landed on titan turns out
those desert antenna things
were right titan shot to the top of the
list of places we could one day live on
sorry mars nasa has a new project
the dragonfly mission they're gonna send
a drone out there
and explore titan even more the
mission's still about six years away
and the rocket will reach saturn's moon
nine years after that
so we're gonna have to wait a while
before we pack up and move to titan
after the dragonfly drone lands on
titan's surface
it's going to whizz around like a sort
of double helicopter
it's going to have eight propellers
three feet wide
since there's weak gravity that's more
than enough to give the drone good
cruising speed
it'll be able to fly about two miles
straight up and take off and land
vertically
like a regular helicopter the main
problem with the whole thing
is the drone's batteries scientists
invented a generator that converts
thermal radiation energy
into electrical energy whatever that
means
one battery charge should be enough for
several hours of continuous flight
the dragonfly is going to be carrying a
lot of research equipment
so it's not like those drones people fly
in the park on a sunday
it's going to weigh about as much as
three ostriches
it's going to have two drills a bunch of
sensors
a spectro thing to find out what
chemicals are lying around
and it's also going to have its own
weather channel with a ton of
instruments to measure temperature and
clouds and stuff
and like any gadget nowadays it has a
camera on it
get ready for some beautiful picks of
titan's epic landscape
night time on titan lasts about eight
earth days
that's when the drone's gonna be
relaxing on the surface recharging and
analyzing samples
that's a long time but it's actually a
good thing
titan's distance from earth causes a bit
of a problem
a delay in communication when they send
the dragonfly a signal from mission
control
it has to fly halfway across the solar
system
takes over an hour in contrast the
signal delay to mars can be as little as
10 minutes
and the signal delay to the moon is only
about a second
scientists expect dragonfly to provide
more information about whether we can
live on titan or not
some experts hope to find a primordial
soup there
it's a whole mush of stuff needed to
make life
we had that same soup on earth about 4
billion years ago
and every single living organism that
ever existed
evolved from this mush of organic
elements
if the dragonfly project's a slam dunk
and titan does turn out to be habitable
it'll have one more mission to find a
nice place for us to settle down in
but creating a self-sustaining colony on
another planet
would definitely be the hardest thing
humans have ever done
first hurdle energy production probably
some sort of nuclear power plant
then comes shelter for humans and their
machines
those new titan buildings will have to
protect us from the extreme cold
and bad weather then drinking water and
oxygen
we'd need to invent a way of collecting
or engineering both
then greenhouses for growing food we'd
also need to mine fuel for
transportation
luckily titans packed full of methane
which is great for fuel
one huge problem gravity because it's so
weak on titan
whoever lives there could lose a lot of
muscle mass
making it hard to work and even just
live
and there are those pesky cryovolcanoes
shooting stuff out at random times
or maybe we'd need a more drastic daring
idea
how about changing titan's atmosphere so
we can breathe on it
and not have to wear about a hundred
hats and gloves
to do this we'd need to terraform
titan's surface
for a long time titan's atmosphere needs
to be enriched with oxygen for us to
breathe
and it would be great if it was a bit
warmer the next step is to create
a biosphere which means plants
we could turn titan into a blooming
jungle with plants
brought over from earth but because of
pressure and gravity
they'd look completely different from
earth plants
they might all grow super tall or maybe
they'd all shrink down to many size
we really don't know first things first
we need to make sure that life is even
possible on titan
scientists recently thought there might
be life on venus
it's sort of the same size as earth and
scientists even call it earth's twin
sister
they discovered a gas on venus phosphine
supposedly it was made by living
organisms
turns out it wasn't true well not really
there is some phosphine floating around
but way less than we first thought
look science on other planets is super
hard people
we're always making mistakes like that